 Git clone
Git clone is a command for downloading existing source code from a remote repository (like Github, for example). In other words, Git clone basically makes an identical copy of the latest version of a project in a repository and saves it to your computer.

There are a couple of ways to download the source code, but mostly I prefer the clone with https way:

git clone <https://name-of-the-repository-link>
2. Git branch
Branches are highly important in the git world. By using branches, several developers are able to work in parallel on the same project simultaneously. We can use the git branch command for creating, listing and deleting branches.

Creating a new branch:
git branch <branch-name>This command will create a branch locally. To push the new branch into the remote repository, you need to use the following command:
git push -u <remote> <branch-name>
Viewing branches:
git branch or git branch --list
Deleting a branch:
git branch -d <branch-name>
 Git checkout
This is also one of the most used Git commands. To work in a branch, first you need to switch to it. We use git checkout mostly for switching from one branch to another. We can also use it for checking out files and commits.
git checkout <name-of-your-branch>
Git status
The Git status command gives us all the necessary information about the current branch. 

git status
We can gather information like:
Whether the current branch is up to date
Whether there is anything to commit, push or pull
Whether there are files staged, unstaged or untracked
Whether there are files created, modified or deleted
 Git add
When we create, modify or delete a file, these changes will happen in our local and won't be included in the next commit (unless we change the configurations).
We need to use the git add command to include the changes of a file(s) into our next commit. 
To add a single file:
git add <file>
Git commit
This is maybe the most-used command of Git. Once we reach a certain point in development, we want to save our changes (maybe after a specific task or issue).

Git commit is like setting a checkpoint in the development process which you can go back to later if needed.

We also need to write a short message to explain what we have developed or changed in the source code.

git commit -m "commit message"
 Git push
After committing your changes, the next thing you want to do is send your changes to the remote server. Git push uploads your commits to the remote repository.
git push <remote> <branch-name>
However, if your branch is newly created, then you also need to upload the branch with the following command:
git push --set-upstream <remote> <name-of-your-branch>
